README.md, before:

# TAC

Course material for "Traitement automatique de corpus" (STIC-B545) taught at [ULB](https://ulb.be)

Caution: Python 3.6 or higher required to handle [f-strings](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0498/) (3.7 or 3.8 is better)

It is recommended to run this code in a virtual environment:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:madewild/tac.git
cd tac
pip install virtualenv
virtualenv venv --python=python3
source venv/bin/activate
which pip
```

Then install Python dependencies with `pip install -r requirements.txt`

## Module 1

`sql.py`: querying a simple relational database

`sparql.py`: querying the Wikidata SPARQL endpoint

`api.py`: playing with OpenStreetMap and EUcountries APIs

`scrape.py`: scraping the AVB to retrieve 2833 PDF bulletins

## Module 2

`convert.sh`: bash script to convert PDFs to TXTs, move them to dedicated folder and aggregate them in single big text file

`explore.py`: playing with various categories (city, year, decade, type...)

`freq.py`: basic frenquency analysis, hapaxes, long words...

## Module 3

### Keyword extraction

`keyword.py`: using YAKE to extract French keywords in each text file

`wordcloud.sh`: generating a wordcloud for a given year (calling `filter.py` in the background)

### Named-entity recognition

Install SpaCy from requirements then run this command to download French model: `python -m spacy download fr_core_news_sm`

`ner.py`: perform NER with SpaCy FR model

### Sentiment analysis

`sentiment.py`: analyse positive/negative sentences with textblob

## Module 4

`classification.py`: supervised classification of 20 newsgroups

`clustering.py`: unsupervised clustering with k-means

`sentence_tokenizer.py`: split big text into sentences

`model_builder.py`: train word2vec model on corpus

`model_explorer.py`: explore similarity between vectors

## Module 5

`language_detection`: language identification with langid

`anonymization.py`: de-identification of data with Faker

## Module 6

`extraction.py`: extract text from various file types

`htr.sh`: script for handwritten text recognition

Commit message:

order scripts and add notebooks

README.md, after:

# TAC

Course material for "Traitement automatique de corpus" (STIC-B545) taught at [ULB](https://ulb.be)

Caution: Python 3.6 or higher required to handle [f-strings](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0498/) (3.7 or 3.8 is better)

It is recommended to run this code in a virtual environment:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:madewild/tac.git
cd tac
pip install virtualenv
virtualenv venv --python=python3
source venv/bin/activate
which pip
```

Then install Python dependencies with `pip install -r requirements.txt`

You can use either the scripts (\*.py) or the Jypyter Notebooks (\*.ipynb)

## Module 1

`s1_sql.py`: querying a simple relational database

`s2_sparql.py`: querying the Wikidata SPARQL endpoint

`s3_api.py`: playing with OpenStreetMap and EUcountries APIs

`s4_scrape.py`: scraping the AVB to retrieve 2833 PDF bulletins

## Module 2

`convert.sh`: bash script to convert PDFs to TXTs, move them to dedicated folder and aggregate them in single big text file

`explore.py`: playing with various categories (city, year, decade, type...)

`freq.py`: basic frenquency analysis, hapaxes, long words...

## Module 3

### Keyword extraction

`keyword.py`: using YAKE to extract French keywords in each text file

`wordcloud.sh`: generating a wordcloud for a given year (calling `filter.py` in the background)

### Named-entity recognition

Install SpaCy from requirements then run this command to download French model: `python -m spacy download fr_core_news_sm`

`ner.py`: perform NER with SpaCy FR model

### Sentiment analysis

`sentiment.py`: analyse positive/negative sentences with textblob

## Module 4

`classification.py`: supervised classification of 20 newsgroups

`clustering.py`: unsupervised clustering with k-means

`sentence_tokenizer.py`: split big text into sentences

`model_builder.py`: train word2vec model on corpus

`model_explorer.py`: explore similarity between vectors

## Module 5

`language_detection`: language identification with langid

`anonymization.py`: de-identification of data with Faker

## Module 6

`extraction.py`: extract text from various file types

`htr.sh`: script for handwritten text recognition
